README file for PEL: PHP EXIF Library.  A library with support for
reading and writing EXIF headers in JPEG and TIFF images using PHP.

Copyright (C) 2004  Martin Geisler <gimpster@users.sourceforge.net>
Licensed under the GNU GPL, see COPYING for details.


Description
***********

The PHP EXIF Library (PEL) makes it easy to develop programs that will
read and write EXIF headers found in JPEG and TIFF images.  See the
file INSTALL for an introduction to how PEL can be used by your
application.

PEL is a library written entirely in PHP, which means that it does not
have any dependencies outside the core of PHP, it does not even use
the EXIF module available for PHP.

Please note that the API for PEL is not yet frozen, and it will remain
changeable until version 1.0 is reached.  Go to the PEL development
mailing list (look below) and share your ideas about how the API
should look like.


Features
********

* Reads and parses JPEG and TIFF images.

* Supports reading and writing all tags supported by the C libexif
  (http://sf.net/projects/libexif) library.

* Supports internationalisation.  PEL currently speaks English,
  Danish, German, Spanish, and French.

* Extensible object-oriented design.

* Unit-tested with SimpleTest (http://sf.net/projects/simpletest).

* Documented with PhpDocumentor (http://phpdoc.org/).


Getting Support
***************

The first place you should consult for support is the documentation
supplied with PEL, found in the 'doc' directory.  There you will find
a complete API documentation which describes all the classes and files
in PEL, and their use.

The API documentation will not be present if you have retrieved PEL
from CVS --- in that case, you can either generate it yourself using
phpDocumentor (http://phpdoc.org/) or read it online at

  http://pel.sourceforge.net/doc/

PEL is hosted on SourceForge and uses the tools found there for
support.  For general discussions about the future development of PEL,
please use the development mailing list.  Remember to subscribe before
you post on the list, you can subscribe here:

  http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/pel-devel

If you have a specific support request, a bug report, a feature
request, or maybe a patch, please use the corresponding tracker:

  http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=108380


Contributing Test Images
************************

To make PEL as stable as possible, it is tested with images from a
number of cameras.  Those test images are distributed as part of PEL,
and can be found in the test/images directory.

If you own a camera model from which there are no test image, then
please contribute one.  The image should

* contain as much interesting EXIF tags as possible.  The camera
  should therefore be set to a manual mode, and the settings should be
  changed from their defaults,

* have as small a file size as possible, so use a resolution of
  640x480 or less, if possible.  Also, use the poorest image quality
  (the best compression) to reduce the file size.  It should be
  possible to get the file size down to around 50--75 KiB.

* should come from the camera unaltered.  Do not resize the image
  using an image manipulation program, for then it is this program
  that will be tested, not the camera that took the image,

* be of something neutral --- a flower, a mountain or something like
  that, and not be a shot from a private party,

* licensed under the GNU GPL as the rest of PEL, so that it can be
  redistributed as part of the test suite.

Submit your test image(s) using the SourceForge Patch Tracker found at

  http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=108380&atid=650324

All image contributers will be given full credit in the AUTHORS file
distributed with PEL and on the PEL homepage at http://pel.sf.net/.


Credits
*******

See the file AUTHORS for a list of people who have contributed to PEL.
